README.md, before:

# Botmetrics

[Botmetrics](https://www.getbotmetrics.com) is a service that lets you
collect & analyze metrics from your bots (Slack, Facebook, Kik, Telegram
and more).

This Node.JS client lets you register your bot with Botmetrics and
starts metrics collection.

## Installation

To install this as part of your Node.JS project, add this to your
`dependencies` in your application's package.json:

`botmetrics`

or run

`$ npm install --save botmetrics`

## Setting your API Host (for Self-Hosting)

If you are using your own self-hosted version of Botmetrics, remember to
set the `BOTMETRICS_API_HOST` environment variable to your host (If you
have hosted your Botmetrics instance at
`https://my-botmetrics-instance.herokuapp.com`, set
`BOTMETRICS_API_HOST` to `https://my-botmetrics-instance.herokuapp.com`.

## Usage (Facebook)

Register your Facebook bot with
[Botmetrics](https://getbotmetrics.com). Once you have done so, navigate to "Bot Settings" and find out your Bot ID and API Key.

Set the following environment variables with the Bot ID and API
Key respectively.

```
BOTMETRICS_BOT_ID=your-bot-id
BOTMETRICS_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

### track

Call the `track` API in the webhook receiver that handles all of your Facebook messenger callbacks.

```javascript
BotMetrics.track(req.body);
```

If you are using an Express app, this is what it would look like:

```javascript
// Remember to run `npm install --save botmetrics` in your app.
//
// If you are using an Express-based app, parse the request body
// and pass along req.body as an argument to Botmetrics
// for example:
var express = require('express');
var app = express();
var bodyParser = require('body-parser');
var Botmetrics = require('botmetrics');

app.use(bodyParser.json()); // for parsing application/json

app.post('/webhooks', function(req, res) {
  Botmetrics.track(req.body);
  res.status(200).send("");
});

app.listen(5000, function () {
  console.log('facebook bot listening on port 5000!');
});
```

## Usage (Kik)

Register your Kik bot with
[Botmetrics](https://getbotmetrics.com). Once you have done so, navigate to "Bot Settings" and find out your Bot ID and API Key.

Set the following environment variables with the Bot ID and API
Key respectively.

```
BOTMETRICS_BOT_ID=your-bot-id
BOTMETRICS_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

### track

Call the `track` API in the webhook receiver that handles all of your Kik bot callbacks.

## Usage (Slack)

Log in to your [BotMetrics](https://getbotmetrics.com) account, navigate
to "Bot Settings" and find out your Bot ID and API Key.

Set the following environment variables with the Bot ID and API
Key respectively.

```
BOTMETRICS_BOT_ID=your-bot-id
BOTMETRICS_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

Once you have that set up, every time you create a new Slack Bot (in the
OAuth2 callback), and assuming the bot token you received as part of the
OAuth2 callback is `bot-token`, make the following call:

```javascript
BotMetrics.registerBot('bot-token', function(err, status) {

});
```

### Retroactive Registration

If you created your bot in the past, you can pass in `createdAt` with
the UNIX timestamp of when your bot was created, like so:

```javascript
BotMetrics.registerBot('bot-token', {createdAt: 1462318092}, function(err, status) {

});
```

### Messaging a user or channel

You can use Botmetrics to message a user (via DM) or a channel for a
given team. You can do this like this:

```javascript
BotMetrics.message('slack-team-id', {user: 'USLACKBOT', text: 'hello there'}, function(err, status) {

});
```

For a channel, pass the Slack Channel ID as a parameter:

```javascript
BotMetrics.message('slack-team-id', {channel: 'CCAFEDEAD1', text: 'hello there'}, function(err, status) {

});
```

To send attachments, you can send an attachments array:

```javascript
Botmetrics.message('slack-team-id', {channel: 'CCAFEDEAD', attachments: [{"fallback": "hello", "text": "hello"}] }, function(err, status) {
  expect(status).to.be.true;
  expect(scope.isDone()).to.be.true;
  done();
});
```

To read more about Slack attachments, you can check it out at this [Slack
API Docs page](https://api.slack.com/docs/attachments).

BotMetrics will queue your message for sending. If your message is
correctly formatted, you will receive `status=true` in the callback.

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/botmetrics/botmetrics.js. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add API Usage information to README

README.md, after:

# Botmetrics

[Botmetrics](https://www.getbotmetrics.com) is a service that lets you
collect & analyze metrics from your bots (Slack, Facebook, Kik, Telegram
and more).

This Node.JS client lets you register your bot with Botmetrics and
starts metrics collection.

## Installation

To install this as part of your Node.JS project, add this to your
`dependencies` in your application's package.json:

`botmetrics`

or run

`$ npm install --save botmetrics`

## Setting your API Host (for Self-Hosting)

If you are using your own self-hosted version of Botmetrics, remember to
set the `BOTMETRICS_API_HOST` environment variable to your host (If you
have hosted your Botmetrics instance at
`https://my-botmetrics-instance.herokuapp.com`, set
`BOTMETRICS_API_HOST` to `https://my-botmetrics-instance.herokuapp.com`.

## Usage (Facebook)

Register your Facebook bot with
[Botmetrics](https://getbotmetrics.com). Once you have done so, navigate to "Bot Settings" and find out your Bot ID and API Key.

Set the following environment variables with the Bot ID and API
Key respectively.

```
BOTMETRICS_BOT_ID=your-bot-id
BOTMETRICS_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

### track

Call the `track` API in the webhook receiver that handles all of your Facebook messenger callbacks.

```javascript
BotMetrics.track(req.body);
```

If you are using an Express app, this is what it would look like:

```javascript
// Remember to run `npm install --save botmetrics` in your app.
//
// If you are using an Express-based app, parse the request body
// and pass along req.body as an argument to Botmetrics
// for example:
var express = require('express');
var app = express();
var bodyParser = require('body-parser');
var Botmetrics = require('botmetrics');

app.use(bodyParser.json()); // for parsing application/json

app.post('/webhooks', function(req, res) {
  Botmetrics.track(req.body);
  res.status(200).send("");
});

app.listen(5000, function () {
  console.log('facebook bot listening on port 5000!');
});
```

## Usage (Kik)

Register your Kik bot with
[Botmetrics](https://getbotmetrics.com). Once you have done so, navigate to "Bot Settings" and find out your Bot ID and API Key.

Set the following environment variables with the Bot ID and API
Key respectively.

```
BOTMETRICS_BOT_ID=your-bot-id
BOTMETRICS_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

### track

Call the `track` API in the webhook receiver that handles all of your Kik bot callbacks.

## Usage (Slack)

Log in to your [BotMetrics](https://getbotmetrics.com) account, navigate
to "Bot Settings" and find out your Bot ID and API Key.

Set the following environment variables with the Bot ID and API
Key respectively.

```
BOTMETRICS_BOT_ID=your-bot-id
BOTMETRICS_API_KEY=your-api-key
```

Once you have that set up, every time you create a new Slack Bot (in the
OAuth2 callback), and assuming the bot token you received as part of the
OAuth2 callback is `bot-token`, make the following call:

```javascript
BotMetrics.registerBot('bot-token', function(err, status) {

});
```

### Retroactive Registration

If you created your bot in the past, you can pass in `createdAt` with
the UNIX timestamp of when your bot was created, like so:

```javascript
BotMetrics.registerBot('bot-token', {createdAt: 1462318092}, function(err, status) {

});
```
### User Enrichment

You can retroactively add information to users of your bot, for e.g.
timezone information. If the ID of your user is `bot-user-id` (this is
the ID you receive from the provider, in the case of Facebook, the Page
Scoped ID of the user), you can call the `enrichUser` API to add more
information:

```javascript
BotMetrics.enrichUser('bot-user-id', {timezone: 'US/Pacific'},
function(err, status) {

});
```

### Messaging a user or channel

You can use Botmetrics to message a user (via DM) or a channel for a
given team. You can do this like this:

```javascript
BotMetrics.message('slack-team-id', {user: 'USLACKBOT', text: 'hello there'}, function(err, status) {

});
```

For a channel, pass the Slack Channel ID as a parameter:

```javascript
BotMetrics.message('slack-team-id', {channel: 'CCAFEDEAD1', text: 'hello there'}, function(err, status) {

});
```

To send attachments, you can send an attachments array:

```javascript
Botmetrics.message('slack-team-id', {channel: 'CCAFEDEAD', attachments: [{"fallback": "hello", "text": "hello"}] }, function(err, status) {
  expect(status).to.be.true;
  expect(scope.isDone()).to.be.true;
  done();
});
```

To read more about Slack attachments, you can check it out at this [Slack
API Docs page](https://api.slack.com/docs/attachments).

BotMetrics will queue your message for sending. If your message is
correctly formatted, you will receive `status=true` in the callback.

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/botmetrics/botmetrics.js. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
